CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to `obsidian.nvim`

Thanks for considering contributing!
Please read this document to learn the various steps you should take before submitting a pull request.

## TL;DR

- Start an issue to discuss the planned changes
- To submit a pull request
  - Start developing your feature in a branch
  - Make sure that your codes complies the `obsidian.nvim` code style, run
    `make chores`
  - The PR should contain
    - The code changes
    - Tests for the code changes
    - Documentation for the code changes (in the code itself and in the `README.md`)
    - `CHANGELOG.md` entry for the code changes

## Details

Note: we automate tedious tasks using a `Makefile` in the root of the repository.
Just call `make` to see what you can do, or `make chores` to run the most important tasks on your code.
You can override some parts of the `Makefile` by setting env variables.

### Local development with LuaLS and `plenary.nvim`

If you're using the [Lua Language Server](https://luals.github.io) (LuaLS) you'll probably want to add `plenary.nvim` as a workspace library since we rely heavily on plenary throughout the codebase.
You can do this by adding a `.luarc.json` configuration file that looks like this:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sumneko/vscode-lua/master/setting/schema.json",
  "workspace.library": [
    "~/.local/share/nvim/lazy/plenary.nvim/"
  ],
  "runtime.version": "Lua 5.1"
}
```

Make sure that the path there to plenary is correct for you.

### Keeping the `CHANGELOG.md` up-to-date

This project tries hard to adhere to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html),
and we maintain a [`CHANGELOG`](https://github.com/obsidian-nvim/obsidian.nvim/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
with a format based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/).
If your PR addresses a bug or makes any other substantial change,
please be sure to add an entry under the "Unreleased" section at the top of `CHANGELOG.md`.
Entries should always be in the form of a list item under a level-3 header of either "Added", "Fixed", "Changed", or "Removed" for the most part.
If the corresponding level-3 header for your item does not already exist in the "Unreleased" section, you should add it.

### Formatting code

TL;DR: `make style`

Lua code should be formatted using [StyLua](https://github.com/JohnnyMorganz/StyLua).
Once you have StyLua installed, you can run `make style` to automatically apply styling to all of the Lua files in this repo.

### Linting code

TL;DR: `make lint`

We use [luacheck](https://github.com/mpeterv/luacheck) to lint the Lua code.
Once you have `luacheck` installed, you can run `make lint` to get a report.

### Checking types

TL;DR: `make types`

We use `lua-ls` to check the type annotations in the lua code.
Once you have [`lua-ls`](https://github.com/LuaLS/lua-language-server) installed,
you can run `make types` to check types.

Newly written code should have type annotations.

### Running tests

TL;DR: `make test`

Tests are written in the `tests/` folder and are run using [mini.test](https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.nvim/blob/main/readmes/mini-test.md). The make command will download the dependencies for you.
For a reference of using mini.test, see [this](https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.nvim/blob/main/TESTING.md).
We are currently in the process of migrating from busted style tests to mini's style, if you are writing test for a new module, prefer the mini style.

### Building the vim user documentation

TL;DR: `make user-docs`

The Vim documentation lives at `doc/obsidian.txt`, which is automatically generated from the `README.md` using [panvimdoc](https://github.com/kdheepak/panvimdoc).
**Please only commit documentation changes to the `README.md`, not `doc/obsidian.txt`.**

However you can test how changes to the README will affect the Vim doc by running `panvimdoc` locally.
To do this you'll need install `pandoc` (e.g. `brew install pandoc` on Mac)
and clone [panvimdoc](https://github.com/kdheepak/panvimdoc) (e.g. `git clone git@github.com:kdheepak/panvimdoc.git ../panvimdoc`).

This will build the Vim documentation to `/tmp/obsidian.txt`.

### Building the vim API documentation

TL;DR: `make api-docs`

The API docs lives in `doc/obsidian_api.txt` and is generated from the source code using [`mini.docs`](https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.doc).
It is automatically generated via CI.

Commit message:

CI: use selene and typos in Makefile and CI (#431)
* CI: use selene and typos in Makefile

* CI: install selene and typo

* fix: install selene

* fix: selene version

* fix: use install action

* fix: install-action

* fix: commit selene config files

* fix: lint in a file

* fix: changelog

* chore: remove luacheck docs and annotations

---------

Co-authored-by: neo451 <412444506@qq.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to `obsidian.nvim`

Thanks for considering contributing!
Please read this document to learn the various steps you should take before submitting a pull request.

## TL;DR

- Start an issue to discuss the planned changes
- To submit a pull request
  - Start developing your feature in a branch
  - Make sure that your codes complies the `obsidian.nvim` code style, run
    `make chores`
  - The PR should contain
    - The code changes
    - Tests for the code changes
    - Documentation for the code changes (in the code itself and in the `README.md`)
    - `CHANGELOG.md` entry for the code changes

## Details

Note: we automate tedious tasks using a `Makefile` in the root of the repository.
Just call `make` to see what you can do, or `make chores` to run the most important tasks on your code.
You can override some parts of the `Makefile` by setting env variables.

### Local development with LuaLS and `plenary.nvim`

If you're using the [Lua Language Server](https://luals.github.io) (LuaLS) you'll probably want to add `plenary.nvim` as a workspace library since we rely heavily on plenary throughout the codebase.
You can do this by adding a `.luarc.json` configuration file that looks like this:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sumneko/vscode-lua/master/setting/schema.json",
  "runtime.version": "Lua 5.1"
}
```

Make sure that the path there to plenary is correct for you.

### Keeping the `CHANGELOG.md` up-to-date

This project tries hard to adhere to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html),
and we maintain a [`CHANGELOG`](https://github.com/obsidian-nvim/obsidian.nvim/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
with a format based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/).
If your PR addresses a bug or makes any other substantial change,
please be sure to add an entry under the "Unreleased" section at the top of `CHANGELOG.md`.
Entries should always be in the form of a list item under a level-3 header of either "Added", "Fixed", "Changed", or "Removed" for the most part.
If the corresponding level-3 header for your item does not already exist in the "Unreleased" section, you should add it.

### Formatting code

TL;DR: `make style`

Lua code should be formatted using [StyLua](https://github.com/JohnnyMorganz/StyLua).
Once you have StyLua installed, you can run `make style` to automatically apply styling to all of the Lua files in this repo.

### Linting code

TL;DR: `make lint`

We use [selene](https://github.com/Kampfkarren/selene) to lint the Lua code and [typos](https://github.com/crate-ci/typos) to catch typos.
Once you have `selene` and `typos` installed, you can run `make lint` to get a report.

### Checking types

TL;DR: `make types`

We use `lua-ls` to check the type annotations in the lua code.
Once you have [`lua-ls`](https://github.com/LuaLS/lua-language-server) installed,
you can run `make types` to check types.

Newly written code should have type annotations.

### Running tests

TL;DR: `make test`

Tests are written in the `tests/` folder and are run using [mini.test](https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.nvim/blob/main/readmes/mini-test.md). The make command will download the dependencies for you.
For a reference of using mini.test, see [this](https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.nvim/blob/main/TESTING.md).
We are currently in the process of migrating from busted style tests to mini's style, if you are writing test for a new module, prefer the mini style.

### Building the vim user documentation

TL;DR: `make user-docs`

The Vim documentation lives at `doc/obsidian.txt`, which is automatically generated from the `README.md` using [panvimdoc](https://github.com/kdheepak/panvimdoc).
**Please only commit documentation changes to the `README.md`, not `doc/obsidian.txt`.**

However you can test how changes to the README will affect the Vim doc by running `panvimdoc` locally.
To do this you'll need install `pandoc` (e.g. `brew install pandoc` on Mac)
and clone [panvimdoc](https://github.com/kdheepak/panvimdoc) (e.g. `git clone git@github.com:kdheepak/panvimdoc.git ../panvimdoc`).

This will build the Vim documentation to `/tmp/obsidian.txt`.

### Building the vim API documentation

TL;DR: `make api-docs`

The API docs lives in `doc/obsidian_api.txt` and is generated from the source code using [`mini.docs`](https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.doc).
It is automatically generated via CI.
